There is a tool called, Deopt Explorer,
this is a tool that Microsoft has
written so let's back up a second,
It is possible to run the node
with a special set of options.
It tells the V8 to tell us about all
of these events when it's compiling,
what is it compiling, what is doing, etc.
And so what I did is I ran
it with a special way and
you get this thing called get this log and
so for us, we got this deopt log,
let's open it up and
it has basically these long list.
These are human readable but
good luck reading this,
it's ridiculously long in here,
but the nice thing
about it is that when you have this
deopt explore you can open up the log.
And when you open up the log,
it tells you about what the VM was doing,
so first of all you can see,
let's make this bigger
First of all, I am not an expert at this,
I think I know more than an average person
about how all this stuff works, but
I wouldn't consider myself an expert,
this rabbit hole goes very deep.
What it shows is this program ran for
2 and a half seconds,
out of that time, almost all of that
time was spent inside of my code.
A small fraction was spent
inside of the program.
Program is the V8, V8 is called
the Program, I don't know why they call it
that way, it would be better to
call it V8 or something like that.
None of the time we'll spend idling and
there were no GC events,right?
So out of the total time running,
you can see that by far the most time was
spent inside of my code, and the virtual
machine itself took some amount of time
to compile my code and process it.
Obviously, these numbers are super tiny
because the code we fed it is super small.
The next thing you can see here is
you can see what code ran when and
for how much time and
using which which processor, so
you can see that at the beginning,
things go interpreted.
And at some point it
transitions over to turbofan,
which is the new optimized system.
Over the years V8 had many different
compilers they had something
called turbofans and of crankshaft I,
forget all the names it's just
different internal implementations
that they have iterated over
the years I believe turbofan is
the the latest iteration that they have.
Again, most of these things work
the same on high enough level,
it's the details that are different
that you should worry about.
What I find it interesting though,
is you can actually see what's going on.
Now notice what it's saying to you,
optimized functions that have been
deoptimized multiple times, in other
words, this function when it was running,
got deoptimized 3 times, 3 times
the V8 tried to compile this thing,
and twice it got it got it wrong or
3 times it got it wrong?
I don't know,
it depends on how you count it, right?
Basically, it kept trying to compile this
thing, and the invariants kept changing on
it and so it had to recompile it over and
over and over again, right?
Until it finally got to the last one,
which was happy to, the first
one was fast, because it was compiled
using invariants that were incorrect and
then it got a little slower but it was
good for the remainder of the things.
And so if you can click on it you
can see which function it is now it
used to be that this thing got highlighted
I don't know what happened I'm sorry.
When I originally was
exploring this thing,
it would nicely highlight the function
that's offending for some reason,
it no longer does so, and
I don't know how to fix it.
But it does a couple of things for you,
it highlights things as you can see,
you can see that this is highlighted.
We will talk about monomorphic reads, etc,
but these are basically good things that
are happening here, this thing should have
been highlighted in red, saying like,
this is the problem here,
this is why I deoptimized.
I don't know why it no longer does it,
it should also be listed under
the deopts over here,
it says that it deopts benchmark,
but it doesn't list the function
as being the cause.
So I apologize I don't know why this is no
longer the case, but I'll show you a more
complicated example where the thing
works as it's supposed to, yes?
>> Did it maybe get deoptimized 3 times
cuz you run it with four different
functions and the fourth one?
>> No, it will give the same
number even if I just did it once,
I think the other times the deoptimization
was for different reasons.
It's supposed to list the reasons here and
you notice it only lists one reason,
it says insufficient type feedback and
if you click on this, it was something not
happy with performance now, and
we can zoom in into it what's going on.
So first reasons why it got deopt was
because of these other reasons and then
later it deopt because of the function and
I really wish this would be highlighted.
And I saw it highlighted before, but
it stopped, I don't know whether the node
updated or what, something changed, and
it no longer highlights, sorry about that.
But I'll show you other examples where
you can get kind of the insights.
So the thing to show you is V8 may be
a black box but it turns out it's not
totally a black box, there's a set
of flags you can pass into it right?
And again,
the team behind the Deopt explorer
actually made this invoke
this tool called dexnode..
What it is is different versions of
node have different versions of V8 and
because of that you have to pass in
different flags to it in order to get
the right information out of it, okay?
So to simplify the whole world they have
this tool called dexnode that figures all
this stuff out for you, and then just
passes the right set of flags right?
So this is basically node
with an extra thing, and
I you can specify where you wanna
put the trace information out
into the system before you
run the piece of code, okay?
So with this,
function,you get this log, and
this log can be opened up in
the dependency explorer, and
you can explore things inside of it,
so I think this is kind of cool.
We'll drive deeper into it, but
first, let's go back to our code.
And let's talk about what
could we do to fix it,
the thing to fix it is to realize
that this benchmark is wrong.
The way this benchmark is implemented
is it assumes that the code will be in
line and it doesn't really work so
I have a second version of this exact
thing which I called the deopt fix.
Where again I have the the same
function as matter of fact I import
the functions from the other file, but
instead of having the benchmark being
a single function that gets
different function passed into it.
Notice now the benchmark is a function
that I can call as part of a while loop,
and this function internally
does the counting and
also returns false at the right
moment when it says I'm done, right?
And so now the benchmark A and
benchmark B have separate call sites.
And because the call sites are separate,
it is now safe for
the VM to inline benchmark
A into the call site A,
an inline benchmark B into
the call site B, right?
And not only does it inline benchmark A
here, it will also inline the time A into
this location and time B into this
location, and so on and so forth, right?
So now, because we're not running
the same benchmark in the same location,
the VM is free to inline everything and
will not have deopt events.
I see confused faces.
>> Could we take a look at
the create Benchmark function?
>> Yeah, this one?
>> Yeah, just
>> It's just a counter internally,
and it runs the performance
now every once in a while.
The way it works is
usually when you call it,
the benchmark just increments a counter.
Every once in a while,
the benchmark says okay,
you've I've done enough loops let me look
at the time see if the time is enough.
And eventually it says when it like has
enough of a time difference then it says,
okay, I think you ran enough, let me
shut you down and the return is false.
>> Before it was running like a certain
number of times, now it's running for
a certain period of time?
>> It runs it for a certain period
of time until it decides yet
that there has run enough time.
And so now if I run the dopt -fix,
I should get about 4.6 microseconds for
every single one well, no,
it gets the faster one, right?
The faster one was 1.7, so
now it gets 1.7 or 1.9,
approximately the same thing consistently
across the board because it doesn't
get into the deoptimization thing, right?
In other words, there is no call site
where the VM could have optimized and
later realized, oops,
that was the wrong thing to do.